# Linux Answers

1. **Question 1:**
   - "ls -l" lists all the contents of the specified directory in a long format. More precisely it lists the contents of the directory in details.

   - "ls -a" lists all the contents of the specified directory without no details other than the contents' names.

2. **Question 2:**
   - "mkdir" will fail if you try to create a directory with the same name as an already existing one. To handle this failure we can write a shell script that will check if the directory already exists before trying to create it. 

3. **Question 3:**
   - The "cat" command in linux is used to read the contents of files, so to concatinate the contents of two files into a different one we can read the contents of the two files using "cat" and then redirect the contents to a new file using the redirect operator ">".
   Syntax : cat file1.txt file2.txt > file3.txt

4. **Question 4:**
   - The "touch" command is used to create empty files.
   
   - When creating a file using the "cat" command you can immediately start writing inside the file and then press 'ctrl+D' when finished.
   syntax: cat > file.txt

5. **Question 5:**
   - Wildcards are used to refer to any single character (?) or a sequence of characters (*). Those wildcards can be used to copy multiple files, that match a specific pattern, at once. For example if we want to copy all .txt files to a specific destination we can use the (*) wildcard instead of writing the name of each .txt file. 
   syntax: cp *.txt destination

6. **Question 6:**
   - In linux "." refer to the current directory and ".." refer to the previous (parent) directory. So to navigate to the parent directory using cd we simply write: cd ..

7. **Question 7:**
   - If the destination file already exists the "mv" command will overwrite the destination file with the moved file. To prevent accidental overwrites we can use the move command interactively by using the "-i" option. This will prompt us with a message asking us to confirm overwriting the file.

8. **Question 8:**
   - The "pwd" command can be used in a script to check where the script is currently being excecuted. It's output can be utulized in a script by making sure that we are properly setting a path, or creating files in the needed path, or also properly changing directories.

9. **Question 9:**
   - whereis: Used to search for binary "/bin" excecutables for a specified command. This also searches for any related source files and manual pages associated with the command. So, we use whereis if we want to find any source file or manual pages in addition to the excecutable binary path of a command

   - Whatis: This gives a small description of a certain command. It is used when we want to quickly understand the behavior of a command without reading its entire manual

   - which: Used to search for executables in the user's PATH environment variable for a specified command. We use this when we only care about knowing the location of the executable path of the command.

10. **Question 10:**
   - Both the "man" and "info" command give information about a specified command. However, the "man" command is more concise than the "info" command. In fact, the "info" command gives more information than the "man" command. Now for the structure, the "man" command is numerically organized while the "info" command is structured using Nodes. 

11. **Question 11:**
   - "grep" is used to search for a specific pattern in files. To search for a pattern in all files in a directory we should use the (*) wildcard to refer to all .txt file. We also must make sure to search for the pattern recursively so that the pattern can be searched for in all the files of all the directories of the current directory. 
   syntax: grep -r "pattern" *.txt

12. **Question 12:**
   - The "head" and "tail" commands displays the first and last 10 lines of the specified file respectively. If we do not provide a file for the "head" and "tail" commands then they will respectively display the first and last 10 lines of a standard input stream that will be provided by our keyboard. 

   - To customize the number of lines displayed by these two commands we simply use the "-n" option then specify the number of lines that we want.

13. **Question 13:**
   - The "tac" command is used to cancatenate and display files in reverse. This could be useful in text processing if we need to read a text file starting from its last line. 
   As an example, log files records events from oldest to newest, so if we want to see our newest log then the "tac" command can be useful.

14. **Question 14:**
   - "echo" is used to display messages to the terminal or standard output. In scripting it is very useful to use it to display the outputs generated by the script.
   "echo" can be used to display both static and dynamic outputs. 
   For static outputs, "echo" simply displays whatever is written inside of it.
   For dynamic outputs, "echo" can display the content of a variable using "$". 

15. **Question 15:**
   - "df" is used to display information about the disk space usage. This is useful for system administration because it helps monitoring disk space, identifying full file system, and troubleshooting.

16. **Question 16:**
   - Both the "df" and "du" commands gives information about disk space however they slightly differ in the type of information.
   - "df": displays information about the file system disk space usage and it is used for system administration, capacity planning and identifying full file systems. 
   - "du": Displays disk usage for files and directories so it is mostly used for directory size analysis, and identifying large files.

17. **Question 17:**
   - The "ps" command displays information about currently running processes. To find the process that uses the most CPU we can sort the output of the ps command.
   syntax: ps aux --sort=-%cpu | head

18. **Question 18:**
   - The "alias" command is usssed to create shortcuts for commands which improves efficiency ssince we will need to type less when writing commands.

19. **Question 19:**
   - "uname" is used to display system information about the operating system and the system hardware. This helps troobleshooting by giving information about compatibility, kernel issues and hardware configuration.

20. **Question 20:**
   - "sudo" allows a permitted user to execute a command as another user. We use it to execute a command with superuser privileges
   - "su" allows a user to switch to another user account by entering the other user's password. So this is used when we want to switch between users.


